if you have a lowend PC like straight up
Intel integrated Graphics system and you
want to get more FPS in all games in
2025 this is the guide for you I will
show you how to get more FPS and fix FPS
drops and stutters on lowend PC or
laptops in the best possible way by
completely optimizing your Windows 10 or
Windows 11 for gaming and performance
all of these methods are really simple
and have been proven to provide up to
30% FPS Improvement by optimizing the
windows and games like fortnite valerent
Call of Duty etc for the Optimal
Performance just keep in mind that the
improvements depend on system to system
so take that percentage with a grain of
salt these will work for all lowend mid
and highend PCs as well as Windows 10
and windows 11 helping you optimize
windows for the best performance
possible so let's dive into it but first
this video is sponsored by EAS us Rec
experts a free screen recording software
with a bunch of built-in functionality
that allows you to take screenshots and
easily record your entire screen certain
regions of the screen or even your game
play without any lag due to its resource
efficiency it also gives you a game
overlays which are a huge Lifesaver for
someone like me who loves to keep my
game stats in check an amazing feature
that it offers is to schedule your
recordings for certain times and
durations you can also use Auto Stop
recordings after a fixed time split your
recordings into multiple parts for
easier management and add your custom
watermarks as well I love its black
screen fix feature which allows me to
record without those annoying black
screen glitches that keep popping up for
audio recording it provides microphone
boost and noise reduction capabilities
so you can record without worrying about
the audio quality it also comes with a
built-in editor that has an AI assistant
so that you can edit those recorded
videos right then and there so go down
into the description right now and
download the E us Rec experts and now
back to the video the very first thing
that you want to do is go down into the
description of this video and download
the lowend PC optimal pack once you have
it downloaded simply right click and
extract it using 7zip voll or really
whatever you want once the pack has been
extracted open it up then inside of it
you will find these four folders along
with a text file starting off go into
the CPU folder and inside of here we're
going to start with the unpo CPU
application so right click on it and run
it as administrator once this loads up
make sure that you're on the high
performance and your system state is set
to AC in case of your laptop so that it
is plugged in secondly make sure that
the core parking index is set 200% that
is unpacked because we don't want any of
our cores to be parked or be in the idle
State and we want the best performance
out of our CPU so in order for that to
work you will need to set this to 100%
mon done you can hit apply then hit okay
and close out of this then right click
on the MSI utility and run it as
administrator once it opens up make sure
that your graphics card is set to the
MSI mode if it does say MSI under the
supported modes so for me it does say
MSI I'm going to just make sure to check
this as for the int priority make sure
that it is set to undefined now I know
that a lot of people set this too high
high but that doesn't really work so
make sure that if you have set this to
high change it to undefined and then hit
apply and close out of it go back into
the pack and open up the Windows
registry folder inside of here are a
bunch of registry files that you need to
apply if you want to get the most
performance out of your windows it
ranges from completely disabling the
game bar via the game DVR as well as
exclusive full screen optimizations some
game optimizations GPU priority
optimizations lower to medium end
optimizations for your system and power
optimizations to turn off power throttle
and all of that good stuff and all you
need to do to apply these is simply
double click on them then hit yes and
then hit okay just repeat the same thing
with all of these optimizations and
apply them one by one you can also check
what's inside of each of these files by
simply right clicking on them and
clicking on edit and inside of here you
can see that it changes some of the
alternate and the direct current
settings as well as power throttling
settings and you can do the same for the
rest of these once done go back into the
pack and open up the kbm folder now
inside of here are a bunch of keyboard
and mouse tweaks that will give you the
lowest input delay for both your mouse
and keyboard starting off open up the
mouse txt file and inside of here you
can see that we want to go to additional
Mouse settings and make sure that the
slider is in the middle and disable
enhance pointer Precision in order to do
that open up the start menu and then
search for Mouse go ahead and open up
the mouse settings inside of here click
on the additional Mouse options and once
this opens up go to the pointer options
make sure that enhance pointer Precision
is turned off or unchecked and that this
slider is actually set to the fifth dot
starting from from 1 2 3 4 and 5 so set
it here then hit apply then hit okay now
you can close out of this for the
highest HS disabling RGB lowest bounce
rate pointer schemes and DPI you will
need to access your mouse software in my
case I have a red dragon Mouse so I'm
going to go ahead and open up my mouse
software so this is my mouse software
and as you can see that I have set the
OGB effect to off instead of any of the
other options the RGB introduces a bit
of DeLay So if you want your PC to look
aesthetic you can turn this on but if
you a hardcore gamer and want every
single bit of performance out of your
mouse then make sure to turn the RGB off
for the DPI I highly recommend that you
set it to 1600 since this is the one
that works best for all of the mouses or
at least most of the ones that I have
tested and others have tested as well
you can always change the sensitivity
inside of the games but for the DPI make
sure that it is set to 1,600 as for the
report rate or polling rate in some
cases make sure to set it to the highest
one available for me by default it was
on 500 HZ however I have set it to 1,000
HZ since that is the highest one
available for me once done you can click
okay and apply these changes now that we
done with the mouse settings let's move
on to the keyboard settings now for this
one we will need to once again open up
the keyboard settings so go down to your
start menu and search for keyboard then
open it up inside of here make sure that
the repeat delay is set to short and the
repeat rate is set to F once done hit
apply and then hit okay as for setting
the highest Hurtz or report rate and
disabling RGB you will need to once
again access your keyboard software if
your keyboard does not come with aof
software then you can skip these steps
but if it does come with the software
open up the software go to the lighting
settings and make sure that the model is
set to off instead of the other options
once again if you want your setup to
look aesthetic you can turn this off
while gaming or just keep this on it's
really a personal preference but it does
introduce a little bit of input delay in
your keyboard key presses so keep that
in mind once done you can close out of
this and you can delete the software
afterwards if you don't really need it
then filter keys in Windows settings is
another setting that you want to disable
to access these go down to your start
menu and search for filter keys go ahead
and open these up and inside of here
make sure that the use filter Keys is
turned off and that's basically it now
we can move on to some of the registry
settings for the keyboard and mouse
inside of your disabled driver searching
we'll make sure that the windows is not
searching for keyboard and mouse drivers
while updating since most of those
drivers are not really compatible with
your Hardware anyways so it is essential
that you go ahead and disable this so
simply double click on it then hit yes
and then hit okay for the disabled
prefetch this is going to make sure that
the prefetch or the super fetch is
disabled temporary files don't build up
in the background for the disabled
startup delay it sets the startup delay
in milliseconds to zero making sure that
everything starts up or starts working
as quickly as possible for the hover
time this is basically the time it takes
for your mouse to hover over things to
show display so we're going to be
reducing that for the keyboard Q size
this is one of the most important
settings if you want to reduce the input
delay for your keyboard as well as your
mouse I have explained both of these
settings in quite a detail in one of my
previous videos so I'm not going to go
that much into detail however I have
provided you with the best values that
you should be applying for both keyboard
as well as your mouse so make sure that
you apply both of these by double
clicking on them then hit yes then hit
okay as for the menu show delay this is
basically the time it takes to right
click and showing up this menu for the
mouse fix this is one of the most
popular Mouse streaks that have been out
there for years and a lot of Pros as
well as other people have been using it
to fix the mouse acceleration you can
also right click on it and then click on
edit to check what's inside of here and
I'm sure that all of you have seen this
streak somewhere in the past so double
click and then hit yes and then hit okay
for the mouse Q size it's once again the
same as keyboard Q size and I have given
you guys the value of 30 or 1 E which is
the best one in my opinion so simply
double click then hit yes and then hit
okay going back into the pack go ahead
and open up the Telemetry and inside of
here I have given you guys the O and O
shut up 10 this is a software that is
built to reduce the Telemetry in the
background and disable these useless
services that keeps spying on you so
simply right click on it and then run it
as administrator so once this opens up
you can see that there are bunch of
privacy as well as other activity
History app privacy and bunch of more
security and other settings that you can
disable from here and it also gives you
guys the recommendations whether
disabling a setting is recommended or
limited or no so what you need to do
here is go into the actions and then
click on apply only the recommended
settings if it gives you an error simply
click on okay and once you have done
that you can go ahead and restart your
computer to make sure that all of these
changes are applied properly you can
also export your own settings so you can
use these on other computers or if you
want to reference them in the future you
can also Click on each individual
setting to let you know what it actually
does for example disabling the sharing
of handwritten data the setting is a
Windows policy this means that it is
necessarily changes the setting and has
can no longer be changed via the unusual
way but once you have disabled all of
these settings that are recommended
simply close out of it and then it will
say that you do you want to close the
window shutup settings may possibly
rever to the previous date following the
Windows update after updates run it
again and that's it simply hit yes now
we will be restarting at the end so
simply hit close go back into the pack
and then open up the services to disable
text and these are all of the services
that are completely useless and are no
longer required by windows so we're
going to be going ahead and disabling
all of these you can find these in both
Windows 10 as well as Windows 11 so just
follow along with me so to disable these
Services go down to your start menu and
search for services then go ahead and
open it up inside of here the first one
that you want to disable is the windows
search now don't worry it's not going to
disable any of these search features it
only disables the over Windows search
that provides content indexing so right
click on it then click on properties if
it's running click on stop and then let
the windows stop it then set the startup
type to manual or disabled in my case
I'm going to set it to manual in case
you want to use this but I also do
recommend setting it to disable if you
want that then hit apply and then hit
okay moving on to all Xbox Services if
you don't use the Xbox app then
disabling all of these Services should
be fine simply scroll down or click
anywhere here and then press the X key
to go to the Xbox services then right
click on them click on properties once
again stop and then set the startup type
to disabled hit apply and then hit okay
now do the same thing for all four of
these
Services once done let's move on to the
all hyperv services now these are the
hyper virtualization services so some of
them might be required if you're using
virtual machines such as me going into
the Ed section you can see that there
are a bunch of hyperv services but I
have set most of these to manual since I
do use Virtual machines so I don't want
to mess all of that up but in your case
if you don't use the virtual machines
simply right click go to properties and
set the startup type to disabled so
moving on to the Microsoft SMS router
Services go ahead and find it with the
Microsoft Windows SMS router Services
right click click on properties and then
set it to disabled after that we have
the diagnostic tracking Services then we
have the fa Services the DMW appu
Services as well as all of the sensor
services in case you don't use any of
the sensors you can see that we have the
sensor data service the sensor
monitoring services and the sensor
service for me I have set all of these
to manual in case you do use a sensor
you can set them to manual so that the
windows does not boot them up
automatically other than when you need
them as for the fact services I don't
think that anyone uses facts anymore so
I'm going to right click click on
properties and set it to disabled for
the DMW app use services this is
basically the device management Wireless
application protocol you can go ahead
and set this to disable as well and then
hit okay so those are pretty much all of
the services that we need to disable
once done you you can simply go ahead
and delete this optimization pack and
that's it then moving on to some of the
Windows settings simply go ahead and
open up your settings and inside of here
simply go ahead and open up the privacy
and then scroll down until you can find
the background apps simply go ahead and
shut them off once then go back into the
home go inside of the gaming make sure
that the game bar is turned off and the
game mode is turned on also go inside of
the graphic settings and you should have
the option for Hardware scheduling if
your PC does support it simply go ahead
and turn that on for the app preferences
simply go ahead and set it your desktop
app click on browse then browse the ex
of the games that you play and once you
have the exe file selected click on ADD
and it should be something like this
then click on them click on option go
ahead and set it to high performance hit
save go back to home and inside of here
go inside of the system and then simply
go ahead inside of the notifications and
actions make sure that all of the
actions as well as notifications are
turned off going back to display make
sure that the scale and layout is set to
100% because for some reason if you
change it to anything other than 100%
Windows causes a lot of input latency
going back to home once again and inside
of here go inside of the search make
sure that this is search to off and all
of these search and history settings are
turned off as well as clear any device
search history but now that you're done
here go ahead and check out this video
if you want to unlock the full potential
of your PC for gaming
[Music]